Welcome to CMST 325 5380 Image Editing (2218)
Posted Jul 29, 2021 2:49 PM (AZ)

Fall is a perfect time to learn how to edit your photographs.  CMST 325 focuses on digital editing using Photoshop.  Photoshop is the primary image editing program used by design professionals for both web and print graphics. It is one of the more difficult applications to learn because of its large number of tools, options and features that facilitate the creation of innovative designs.

At the beginning of the term, you will need to have a copy of Photoshop installed on your computer (either Mac or Windows OS).   Photoshop takes a large amount of RAM so older computers and tablets were probably not work well.  Adobe provides a cloud version of Photoshop to students for $9.99 each month for a year with an automatic renewal.  Be sure you buy Photoshop and not just Adobe Lightroom.  If Photoshop doesn't fit into your career plans, you may use an older version of Photoshop or Gimp but some of the course instructions may not apply. Gimp is a free, open-source application that is similar to Photoshop. I am not as familiar with Gimp but I will try to provide resources to help you complete the assignments if you choose Gimp.

The textbook for this course is Adobe Photoshop Classroom in a Book, (2020 Release), by Conrad Chavez and Andrew Faulkner.  It is available through the UMGC library Safari Book Online.  Here is a link with information on how to access the textbook.  Directions on how to access Safari Books Online follows this announcement.

There are three projects and a final project that are based on the knowledge derived from the online resources. The projects will build upon each other using the techniques learned each week to create a final project that demonstrates your mastery of the basic design and editing functionality available in Adobe Photoshop CC.  There are discussions in Week One and Week Eight.  Otherwise, there are no weekly discussions.  Communication in the Student Lounge can help make the class more fun.

Please take the time to review the syllabus and the links in the left panel of the LEO classroom. If you click Content in the top menu and Course Content in the left menu you will find a folder for each week's activities that lists the topics, tasks, discussions and submission requirements.

The project submission dates are recommended rather than required.  To take full advantage of the course, I suggest that students try to adhere to the suggested due dates.  The first three  projects must be turned in by the end of the seventh week (firm due date). and the Final Project must be submitted by the last day of the class. You can resubmit the first three projects to correct errors and improve your grade.  Most Photoshop image files can't be sent by email because the file sizes are too large so if you want specific help with a project, please post it in your Assignment Folder and send me an email asking for help.  I grade only the latest version.

All images must be no more than 1200 pixels wide. The size of an image is related directly to the file size. This class has a limited amount of storage space allocated on the UMGC servers so it is important not to submit huge file sizes. 

You can get a headstart on your assignments by collecting some photographs that you can use in some of the the assignments. These can be existing photos of your own family, pets, vehicles, hobby, etc. You can also use photos downloaded from the Internet as long as you respect copyright restrictions. I hope you will post your projects on an ongoing basis in the relevant discussion forums and view the projects of other students. Supportive comments and suggestions about another student's work are often helpful.

I don't anticipate any required use of the Chat Room because it is extremely difficult to find a time that works for all students. The Roster in the top menu provides a way for students to contact each other by email. It is helpful for students to develop relationships with people who have common career goals and interests to ask for help with a Photoshop task, share resources and give job hunting assistance.

Please post questions of general interest in either the Ask the Professor or the Student Lounge. Students with more knowledge of Photoshop are always welcome to help other students.

Email is my preferred method for students to communicate with me privately. I check these messages frequently throughout most days. Email also provides a record of communication related to the course within the classroom. If you describe your problem carefully and send an screen shot image (if relevant), I will be able to resolve a problem more quickly. Please ask for help before you get frustrated to the point that you are thinking of dropping the course. I get several hundred email messages a day so I can easily miss an email from a student. If you don't get a quick response, please send another email message. Please include your name in the email because some email addresses are hard to connect to particular students.

Sometimes you may have questions about an unfinished project.  You may submit the project in your Assignment folder and send me an email with your questions.  My email server rejects the large Photoshop files so please do not send them as attachments to email messages.  I will only grade the last project submissions.

I am looking forward to working with you as you learn how to edit images using Photoshop. The software is very complex and takes a great deal of time and patience to master. You will need to work hard to complete this course but I also hope that you will have fun both with Photoshop and other creative activities. Please give me lots of feedback so I can be sure that the course meets your needs.